README.md, before:

<p align=center>
    <img src="https://developer.somfy.com/sites/default/files/img/SoOpen.png"/>
</p>
<p align=center>
    <a href="https://travis-ci.org/tetienne/somfy-open-api"><img src="https://travis-ci.org/tetienne/somfy-open-api.svg?branch=master"/></a>
    <a href="https://codeclimate.com/github/tetienne/somfy-open-api/maintainability"><img src="https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/efefe25b6c0dc796bc1c/maintainability" /></a>
    <a href="https://codeclimate.com/github/tetienne/somfy-open-api/test_coverage"><img src="https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/efefe25b6c0dc796bc1c/test_coverage" /></a>
</p>
 
This library is an attempt to implement the entire Somfy API in Python 3.
Documentation for the Somfy API can be found [here](https://developer.somfy.com/somfy-open-api/apis).

## Get developer credentials

1. Vist https://developer.somfy.com
2. Create an account
3. Open the *My Apps* menu
4. Add a new App (for testing, redirect url can be anything in https)
4. Plug in your details into the test script below.

## Example usage

Print all covers name.

```python
from src.api.devices.roller_shutter import RollerShutter
from src.api.somfy_api import SomfyApi

client_id = r'<CLIENT_ID>'
redir_url = '<REDIR_URL>'
secret = r'<secret>'

api = SomfyApi(client_id, redir_url)
authorization_url, state = api.get_authorization_url()
print('Please go to {} and authorize access.'.format(authorization_url))
authorization_response = input('Enter the full callback URL')
api.request_token(authorization_response, secret)
api.automatic_refresh()

sites = api.get_sites()
devices = api.get_devices(sites[0].id)

covers = [RollerShutter(d, api) for d in devices if 'roller_shutter' in d.categories]

for cover in covers:
    print("Cover {} has the following position: {}".format(cover.device.name, cover.position))

```

## Contribute
Currently only roller shutter are supported. The current [documentation](https://developer.somfy.com/products-services-informations) does not give enough information to implement all the devices.
If you want to contribute to this repository adding new devices, you can create an issue with the output of this script:
```python
import json
import re

client_id = r'<CLIENT_ID>'
redir_url = '<REDIR_URL>'
secret = r'<secret>'

from src.api.somfy_api import SomfyApi

api = SomfyApi(client_id, redir_url)
authorization_url, state = api.get_authorization_url()
print('Please go to {} and authorize access.'.format(authorization_url))
authorization_response = input('Enter the full callback URL')
api.request_token(authorization_response, secret)
api.automatic_refresh()

devices = api.get_devices()
# Remove personal information
dumps = json.dumps(devices, sort_keys=True, indent=4, separators=(',', ': '))
dumps = re.sub('".*id.*": ".*",\n', '', dumps)

print(dumps)
```

Commit message:

USE Category enum to ease example

README.md, after:

<p align=center>
    <img src="https://developer.somfy.com/sites/default/files/img/SoOpen.png"/>
</p>
<p align=center>
    <a href="https://travis-ci.org/tetienne/somfy-open-api"><img src="https://travis-ci.org/tetienne/somfy-open-api.svg?branch=master"/></a>
    <a href="https://codeclimate.com/github/tetienne/somfy-open-api/maintainability"><img src="https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/efefe25b6c0dc796bc1c/maintainability" /></a>
    <a href="https://codeclimate.com/github/tetienne/somfy-open-api/test_coverage"><img src="https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/efefe25b6c0dc796bc1c/test_coverage" /></a>
</p>
 
This library is an attempt to implement the entire Somfy API in Python 3.
Documentation for the Somfy API can be found [here](https://developer.somfy.com/somfy-open-api/apis).

## Get developer credentials

1. Vist https://developer.somfy.com
2. Create an account
3. Open the *My Apps* menu
4. Add a new App (for testing, redirect url can be anything in https)
4. Plug in your details into the test script below.

## Example usage

Print all covers name.

```python
from src.api.devices.category import Category
from src.api.devices.roller_shutter import RollerShutter
from src.api.somfy_api import SomfyApi

client_id = r'<CLIENT_ID>'
redir_url = '<REDIR_URL>'
secret = r'<secret>'

api = SomfyApi(client_id, redir_url)
authorization_url, state = api.get_authorization_url()
print('Please go to {} and authorize access.'.format(authorization_url))
authorization_response = input('Enter the full callback URL')
api.request_token(authorization_response, secret)
api.automatic_refresh()

devices = api.get_devices(category=Category.ROLLER_SHUTTER)

covers = [RollerShutter(d, api) for d in devices]

for cover in covers:
    print("Cover {} has the following position: {}".format(cover.device.name, cover.position))

```

## Contribute
The current [documentation](https://developer.somfy.com/products-services-informations) does not give enough information to implement all the devices.
If you want to contribute to this repository adding new devices, you can create an issue with the output of this script:
```python
import json
import re

client_id = r'<CLIENT_ID>'
redir_url = '<REDIR_URL>'
secret = r'<secret>'

from src.api.somfy_api import SomfyApi

api = SomfyApi(client_id, redir_url)
authorization_url, state = api.get_authorization_url()
print('Please go to {} and authorize access.'.format(authorization_url))
authorization_response = input('Enter the full callback URL')
api.request_token(authorization_response, secret)
api.automatic_refresh()

devices = api.get_devices()
# Remove personal information
dumps = json.dumps(devices, sort_keys=True, indent=4, separators=(',', ': '))
dumps = re.sub('".*id.*": ".*",\n', '', dumps)

print(dumps)
```
